[Music]
when you're editing navigating the
timeline of your project is essential
here are some tips on how to be more
effective while working on your project
there are many keyboard shortcuts you
can use to navigate your timeline let's
start with playback to play and pause a
video press the space bar on your
keyboard it will start playing from
where your playhead
is you can move the playhead to a new
position with your mouse like this but
you can also move it with keyboard
commands we support what is typically
known as jkl navigation if you're not
familiar with this please take a second
to learn this as it is very effective we
recommend putting your right index
finger on J middle finger on K and ring
finger on L this way you can effectively
control playing back and forth on the
timeline hit l once to play at normal
speed J to rewind at normal speed and K
to stop if you want to move faster then
hit l or J multiple times for each time
your playback speed forward or reverse
will double there is an indicator
showing you the current playback speed
you can go all the way up to 512 times
normal speed if you want to move slowly
press l or J while holding down K this
way you will go forward or backwards at
half speed for fine control you can move
back and forth frame by frame by using
the left and right arrow keys you can
move one second at the time by holding
shift while using the same keys to
navigate between editing points you can
use an arrow up and down to move to the
very start or end of the timeline you
can use shift and the same Keys when you
have made an In-N-Out Point by pressing
i o you can easily navigate by pressing
shift I and shift
o to zoom in and out of your timeline
you have two options you can press the
plus or minus buttons on your keyboard
or use the plus or minus on the left of
the timeline to scroll horizont along
your timeline you can either use the
scroller or the scroll wheel of your
mouse enabling snapping item edges which
is done by clicking the icon in the
functions bar notifies you when you've
reached the edge of another clip while
moving another clip along your timeline
[Music]